README.md, before:

# Introduction
This university project is an introduction to working with python and image editing. Especially working with libraries, classes and openCV. 
The documentation should be really beginner-friendly and will also contain workflows, and a guide how to set up the project.

The licenseplatelib.py contains the class IdentifyLicensePlate which takes a path to an image. If it detects a licenseplate, and the text is matching the (at the moment) german format. The getLicenseplatestring method will return the licenseplate as String.

# Dependencies
Before working with this code you need to install some libraries. You can either use feature from your IDE (if you use one) else here is a [how to install python libaries].

## Following libraries are needed:
| libary            | documentation  |
|------------       |----------------|
| cv2               | [cv2 documentation](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.2/d6/d00/tutorial_py_root.html)  |
| Pillow            | [Pillow documentation](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)  | 
| Tesseract-OCR     | [Tesseract documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pytesseract/) |
| NumPy             |[Numpy documentation](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/)
| Imutils           |[Imutils documentation](https://pypi.org/project/imutils/)

# Flowcharts
The main method from the IdentifyLicensePlate is getLicenseplateString. This method starts the image processing as well as the text detection. The logic of the function is presented in following graphic.
    ![Flowcharts getlicenseplateString](/documentation/getLicenseplateString.png)

Commit message:

more documentation
Signed-off-by: Tobias Meinert <Tobias_meinert_vt@gmx.net>

README.md, after:

# Introduction
This university project is an introduction to working with python and image editing. Especially working with libraries, classes and openCV. 
The documentation should be really beginner-friendly and will also contain workflows, and a guide how to set up the project.

The licenseplatelib.py contains the class IdentifyLicensePlate which takes a path to an image. If it detects a licenseplate, and the text is matching the (at the moment) german format. The getLicenseplatestring method will return the licenseplate as String.

# Dependencies
Before working with this code you need to install some libraries. You can either use feature from your IDE (if you use one) else here is a [how to install python libaries].

## Following libraries are needed:
| libary            | documentation  |
|------------       |----------------|
| cv2               | [cv2 documentation](https://pypi.org/project/opencv-python/)  |
| Pillow            | [Pillow documentation](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)  | 
| Tesseract-OCR     | [Tesseract documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pytesseract/) |
| NumPy             |[Numpy documentation](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/)
| Imutils           |[Imutils documentation](https://pypi.org/project/imutils/)

# Flowcharts
Following the process of getting the licenseplate as string from the original image is explained with flowcharts. For best understanding of the code, try to follow the flowchart inside the code.

The main method from the IdentifyLicensePlate is [getLicenseplateString](https://github.com/meiTob/Kennzeichenerkennung/blob/b9627e55419c2de57726a856b065093ed5adde60/licenseplatelib.py#L40). The method is called in the main script to get the feature. It starts the image processing as well as the text recognition.
    ![Flowchart getlicenseplateString](/documentation/getLicenseplateString.png)

To understand the image processing more in depth we are looking at the [findAndCropLicensePlate](https://github.com/meiTob/Kennzeichenerkennung/blob/b9627e55419c2de57726a856b065093ed5adde60/licenseplatelib.py#L73). This method searches in the original image for a licenseplate and cuts the suspected part of the image out. It returns a list with all cutted images. Note: The method will cut wrong images also. The text detection will filter them out. As long as the licenseplate is in the imagelist it is working.
    ![Flowchart findAndCropLicensePlate_1](/documentation/findAndCropLicensePlate_1.png)
    ![Flowchart findAndCropLicensePlate_1](/documentation/findAndCropLicensePlate_1.png)

The returned imagelist is thrown into the text detection (explained later). If the text detection is not able to identify a licenseplate the [originalImgEdgeDetection](https://github.com/meiTob/Kennzeichenerkennung/blob/b9627e55419c2de57726a856b065093ed5adde60/licenseplatelib.py#L174) is used instead. This method takes the original image put some filter for edge detection on it. The image is then thrown into the text detection and we hope for the best.
    ![Flowchart originalImgEdgeDetection.ong](/documentation/originalImgEdgeDetection.png)

The [validateFormate](https://github.com/meiTob/Kennzeichenerkennung/blob/b9627e55419c2de57726a856b065093ed5adde60/licenseplatelib.py#L114)-method  works with the python inbuild [regrex libary](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html). It mainly filters non letters and numbers out of the string, and then compares the resulting string with a pattern for german licenseplates. The following flowchart doesn't use the real code lines. Instead, the comments are being used, as they are more understable.
    ![Flowchart validateFormat](/documentation/validateFormat.png)
